# HeadsUp
An early-semester screening module to assess student engagement and performance using any .csv gradesheet format.

HeadsUp will be an open-source app that allows instructors with little to no technical knowledge generate both a list-based and plotted report of students who are judged to be at risk of dropping or failing the instructor's course. The process will need to tolerate messy data with unpredictable grading structures (percentages, proportions, columns that are composites of other columns, binomial scores, etc.) and should be more predictive than a simple to-date cumulative course grade. To this end, both proportional performances per grading event (e.g., "grade") and participation within grading event will be incorporated. My eventual goal is to create a web-hosted dashboard reducing instructor interaction with the script to uploads, drop-down selections, and radio buttons. This product could be generalized to predict attrition in other subscription-based services by assessing customer transaction rate and transaction value.

# Stage 1 
This Python script successfully munges data from six different instructors and four different course-hosting services, producing both participation-based and grade-based measures for each student. These two metrics are then ranked within column (assignment) and plotted against final course outcome, and Spearman's correlations compare the power of each metric to predict final course outcome. I've observed that both metrics (cumulative ranked engagement and cumulative ranked grade) work best in larger courses and in courses with many assignments throughout the semester - that is to say, large-enrollment fall- or spring-semester course, as opposed to small-enrollment summer- or winter-session courses. That's not unexpected and it's not bad news - this sort of tool is most needed when dealing with large enrollments. I have also observed that, in these large courses, first-quarter ranked engagement tends to be more predictive than first-quarter ranked grade. I suspect that a metric combining both of these predictors could be more powerful than either individually. I have also observed that an excess of composite columns - columns that are purely redundant with earlier columns - interferes with the predictive value of either metric, and in Stage 2 I will develop code to weed those out. 
